# Welcome to the Bismuth autogame tutorial

## What is autogame:

Autogame is a **deterministic semi-autonomous** computer game with RPG elements everyone in
possession of Bismuth can participate in. Without a central server, everyone can reproduce
game world events based on predefined rules for every match. Changing the rules changes 
outcomes of matches.

Users enter the world by sending a **specific transaction to the Bismuth blockchain**, 
that's where their journey begins. The autogame world is unknowingly generated by the Bismuth
miners and is shared among all players. That includes encounters of monsters, healing 
and weapon/armor looting.

So if two players enter on the same block height, they will meet the same enemies and obtain
same weapons and armor. However, encounters will evolve differently, based on their **addresses,
which are used as match seeds.**

Progress in the world is linear, block by block and transaction by transaction. 
Each transaction generates a random game step hash. The game then cycles through the hashes,
looking for patterns. Certain patterns trigger events. Each game ultimately ends in player's death. 
**The player who survives the longest takes the top spot in the highscores table.**

## Participation:

### Casual league:
You can participate by sending a random Bismuth transaction to anyone, but you **must include 
"autogame" as the transaction operation.** That will automatically include you in the casual
league.

|Data|Operation|Recipient|Amount|Effect|
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|
|None|autogame|_any_|_any_|Starts a match in the casual league.|

### Tournaments:
Tournaments require you to send a specific amount to a specific address of the tournament 
coordinator. You **must include "autogame" as the transaction operation and enter the tournament 
name in the "data" field.** If you do it correctly, you will be automatically included in 
the league.

|Data|Operation|Recipient|Amount|Effect|
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|
|_Tournament name_|autogame|_Tournament coordinator address_|_Tournament fee_|Starts a match in a given tournament, fabulous prizes to be won.

### Human interaction:

- They can **grant themselves items**, currently **The Chaos Ring**, which can give them a **positive
blessing or a negative curse** based on the structure of the current step in the world.

- They can summon global events that happen across all leagues for all players, currently 
**Ragnarök, which adds new types of enemies to the currently running matches. If you start a game after Ragnarök begins, you are not affected.**

|Data|Operation|Amount|Effect|
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|
|item:chaos_ring|autogame:add|_any_|Adds Chaos Ring to the ongoing match of the given address.
|event:ragnarok|autogame:add|_any_|Introduces the Ragnarök event to all currently running matches across all leagues.|

### Attacking other players

|Data|Operation|Recipient|Amount|Effect|
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|
|pvp:attack|autogame:add|*player you want to attack*|_any_|Attacks enemy player in all his current instances with character from your latest game, includes weapon damage, armor counts. Any player can be attacked 3 times maximum.|

## Game progress:
Progress of individual matches can be tracked online in real time at 
http://autogame.bismuth.live:6060 or you can run your own instance of the **game engine (run.py)**
and the **webserver (web.py)** available in this repository. You will need to specify path
to the running Bismuth blockchain in **config.json**

## Strategy:
Much in autogame is based on probability. Taking into consideration development of the recent
matches, players can plan their entries carefully with an event averaging expectation.
If the player meets too many dragons in one match, it can be expected that there will not 
be as many in the following matches, the same goes for items and automated events in general.

Judging from the tournament scores and the number of participants, the player can estimate 
whether entering the tournament is worth the risk.

## Effort Efficiency Theory:

Autogame is based on the presumption that players enjoy taking part in games over which they lack
control. This is dictated by the **relationship between effort and reward**. Organisms in general 
strive to **minimize the first and maximize the latter**, achieving the greatest **risk/reward
ratio**. We need to see effort as a rare resource for this purpose.

This claim can be demonstrated on the most popular games with lack of involvement, such as lotteries,
Candy Crush, roulette, slot machines, organized religion, horoscopes, where **responsibility for failure is 
attributed to bad luck (higher power) and success to self.** The tone is strong even in more involved 
games such as MOBAs or Battle Royales, where **responsibility for failure is attributed to others 
and success to self.**

This leads to underlining the **objective lack of responsibility with a subjective misjudgement** 
as the result of absolute **priorization of reward by the brain over all other assets** in order
for the dopamine to be released as the result of perceived success or at least the best possible
outcome. 

This effect can also be seen in users of dopamine-affecting drugs, where for satisfaction, users
divert from any moral code and indulge in criminal activities for the simple reason of **inducing
the reward effect** in the brain by **chemically manipulating dopamine receptors.**

Since _learning how to win a game or lead a life in which people have control is much more difficult
than rewarding the brain with dopamine for a strawman effort_, the brain in general prioritizes shortcuts such as 
narcotics or games with the highest possible degree of **passivity to effect ratio (aka efficiency).**

|Situation|Attribution|Result|Justification|Causation|
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|
|Success|Self|Reward|I am the best|Perfection of self
|Partial Success|Self|Reward|I am better| Superiority over contender 
|Partial Failure|Other|Reward|Everything possible was done| Superiority of self
|Heavy Failure|Other|Reward|Their fault or my bad luck| Externalized

As you can see from the table, the resistance of brain towards learning (spending effort) is
in a direct relation to the level of received reward. Therefore, **the holy grail of efficiency
is the effortless victory, which required the least amount of learning and engagement.**

##Value proposition

Unlike normal games, autogame has no servers. Unlike CryptoKitties, it does not have a vision of every 
PC on earth running the server. Instead, you can opt to run a game mapper, which reconstructs immutable 
games from blockchain without putting load on it.